# Mousa Zeid Baker
Degree in Computer Science and Engineering

## About me
Extremely motivated to constantly develop my skills, increase my knowledge
and to grow professionally. I am confident in my ability to deliver creative
solutions and ideas where I can apply my technical knowledge and skills. My
primarily skills lie within the field of cloud computing, DevOps and plain
software development. I also have interest in artificial intelligence,
specifically machine learning and deep learning.

## Currently

I am an Experienced Engineer at [Axis Communications](http://www.axis.com/),
based at the R&D New Business site in Lund, Sweden. My role includes, but is
not limited to, cloud computing, software development, DevOps and solution
designing.

## Experience
`Nov 2019-` __Axis Communications__ Software Engineer & DevOps Engineer

Part of a new cloud-native project within the field of audio. We started the
project from scratch and the goal was to develop a multi-site serverless
solution for voice messaging, music streaming, warning system etc. The
platform setup included network speakers and other audio devices. The
architecture of choice was microservice-oriented with Pub/Sub pattern in
order to ensure an event-driven application. Various AWS resources were used
in our solution such as AppSync for GraphQL API, SNS topics & SQS queues for
Pub/Sub pattern, Lambdas for serverless implementation and DynamoDB as
database. This design enabled our application to quickly scale in response to
demand. We used The AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK) framework together
with TypeScript to model and build our cloud infrastructure.

`Jun 2017-Nov 2019` __Axis Communications__ Software Engineer

Developer within a cloud-based surveillance solution for security and alarm
monitoring companies. The platform setup included network video cameras and a
variety of analytics and security devices. I had the time to be part of two
agile teams, one backend and one frontend, with a main focus on the backend.
With time I got an important role as an API specialist where I had the
opportunity to both design and implement JSON RESTful APIs. The old code base
was in PHP while new microservices were in Node.js. For our REST API:s we
used Laravel, a PHP framework that follows the model–view–controller
architectural pattern. A MySQL database was used and the cloud was modeled
and set up with Terraform.

`Jan 2017-Jun 2017` __Sony Mobile Communications__ Master's Degree Project

The main goal of the thesis was to investigate how to use Generative
Adversarial Networks (GANs) to generate synthetic data in order to increase
the number of training examples to train a classifier. GANs are neural
networks that analyzes data from a certain distribution in order to generate
similar data. A conditional DCGAN was implemented using TensorFlow, the
convolutional neural network (CNN) classifier was pre- implemented with
Caffe’s .prototxt format in NVIDIA DIGITS.

`Jun 2016-Sep 2016` __Ericsson Stockholm__ Internship

Worked with deep learning within the department of Cloud platform HDS.
Various of deep learning frameworks such as Caffe, TensorFlow, Keras,
scikit-learn, Torch etc were used to model different types of artificial
neural networks. From simple fully connected neural networks (NN) to
recurrent neural networks (RNN) for predicting utilization levels and
failures in Data Center installations.

## Education

`Sep 2012-Jun 2017` __Blekinge Institute of Technology__ MSc in Computer Science and
Engineering

`Feb 2016-July 2016` __Universitat Politècnica De Catalunya__ Exchange student in Barcelona,
Spain through Erasmus programme for higher education students


## Publications

<!-- ### Thesis -->
`2017` __Zeid Baker, Mousa__ Generation of Synthetic Images with Generative
Adversarial Networks.


## Technical skills

* AWS
* TypeScript
* NodeJs
* PHP
* Python
* GraphQL
* RESTful API
* DynamoDB
* MySQL
* Git
* BASH

## Areas of expertise

* Cloud Computing
* Serverless Computing
* Software Development
* APIs
* Microservices
* Pub/Sub pattern architectures

## Personal skills
* Motivated
* Driven
* Organized
* Team player
* Fast learner

## Links 
* [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mousazeidbaker/)

## References

Available on request.

## Contact
Phone: +46 736 48 64 64
Email: mousa.zeid.baker@gmail.com  
Address: Malmö, Sweden
